# DS5500-fall2020-rb-bc-ek-rm

In recent years, gentrification has become a hot topic in communities nationwide. Most often, this is a result of higher-income individuals and families becoming more interested in moving to neighboring communities that are typically occupied by lower-income residents. The effects of this phenomenon can include increasing the economic value, altering the demographics, and raising the average household income of a neighborhood, and while there are some benefits to gentrification, it often leads to the displacement of existing residents1. We have seen the effects of gentrification over time in our own communities—particularly, in the neighborhoods of Boston. We wish to study these effects, specifically focusing on identifying the factors that contribute to gentrification in the Boston area. We plan to employ statistical analysis techniques to observe the ways in which these factors have changed over time to determine which are statistically significant, and using this information, we can better predict whether or not a particular neighborhood is susceptible to gentrification.

To accomplish the goal of our capstone project this semester, we have decided to work with data from the United States Census Bureau. The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey sponsored by the U.S. Census Bureau that provides publicly available data compiled at 1- and 5-year resolutions. The survey provides insights on social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population, and strives to deliver communities key information needed to help plan investments and services. The scope of the ACS includes each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, each congressional district, each metropolitan area, and all counties with populations of 65,000 or more­­2.
